Chapter 10: Secrets (#22556)
dotnet/docs: docs/architecture/dapr-for-net-developers/secrects-buildingblock.md

        .ConfigureWebHostDefaults(webBuilder =>
        {
            webBuilder.UseStartup<Startup>();
        });
```

The above example loads the `eshopsecrets` secrets collection into the .NET configuration system at startup. Registering the provider requires an instance of `DaprClient` to invoke the secrets API on the Dapr sidecar. The other arguments include the name of the secrets management component and a `DaprSecretDescriptor` object with the name of the secret.

Once loaded, you can retrieve secrets directly from application code:

```csharp
public void GetCustomer(IConfiguration config)
{
    var connectionString = config["eshopsecrets"]["customerdb"];
}
```

## Secrets management components

The secrets management building block supports several secret store components. At the time of writing, the following secret stores are available:

- Environment Variables
- Local file
- Kubernetes secrets
- AWS Secrets Manager
- Azure Key Vault
- GCP Secret Manager
- HashiCorp Vault

 > [!IMPORTANT]
 > The environment variables and local file components are designed for development workloads only.

The following sections show how to configure a secrets management component.

> ### Configuration (TODO Move generic text to getting started)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuration
```

Not sure if this TODO was done or not?

Author: We will do this during a last pass over the entire book.

```json
{
  "eShopRedisPassword": "e$h0p0nD@pr"
}
```

You place this file in a `components` folder that you specify when running the Dapr application.

The following secrets management component configuration file consumes the JSON file as a secret store. It's also placed in the `components` folder:

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: eshop-local-secret-store
  namespace: eshop
spec:
  type: secretstores.local.file
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: secretsFile
    value: ./components/eshop-secrets.json
  - name: nestedSeparator
    value: ":"
```

The component type is `secretstore.local.file`. The `secretsFile` metadata element specifies the path to the secrets file.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The path to a secrets file can be a absolute or relative path. The relative path is based on the folder in which the application starts. In the example, the `components` folder is a sub-folder of the directory that contains the .NET application.

From the application folder, start the Dapr application specifying the `components` path as a command-line argument:

```bash
dapr run --app-id basket-api --components-path ./components dotnet run
```

>  > [!NOTE]
>  > This above example applies to running Dapr in stand-alone mode. For Kubernetes hosting, consider using volume mounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> This above example applies to running Dapr in stand-alone mode. For Kubernetes hosting, consider using volume mounts.
```

The `nestedSeparator` in a Dapr configuration file specifies a character to *flatten* a JSON hierarchy. Consider the following snippet:

```json
{
    "redisPassword": "some password",
    "connectionStrings": {
        "customerdb": "some connection string",
        "productdb": "some connection string"
    }
}
```

Using a colon as a separator, you can retrieve the `customerdb` connection-string using the key `connectionStrings:customerdb`.

>  > [!NOTE]
>  > The colon is the default separator value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> The colon `:` is the default separator value.
```

### Kubernetes secret

This second example focuses on a Dapr application running in Kubernetes. It uses the standard secrets mechanism that Kubernetes offers. Use the Kubernetes CLI (`kubectl`) to create a secret named `eshop-redis-secret` that contains the password:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic eshopsecrets --from-literal=redisPassword=e$h0p0nD@pr -n eshop
```

Once created, you can reference the secret in the component configuration file for state management:

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: eshop-basket-statestore
  namespace: eshop
spec:
  type: state.redis
  metadata:
  - name: redisHost
    value: redis:6379
  - name: redisPassword
    secretKeyRef:
      name: eshopsecrets
      key: redisPassword
auth:
  secretStore: kubernetes
```

The `secretKeyRef` element specifies the name of the Kubernetes secret and the secret's key, `eshopsecrets`, and `redisPassword` respectively. The `auth` metadata section instructs Dapr to use the Kubernetes secrets management component.

>  > [!NOTE]
>  > Auth is the default value when using Kubernetes secrets and can be omitted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> Auth is the default value when using Kubernetes secrets and can be omitted.
```

In a production setting, secrets are typically created as part of an automated CI/CD pipeline. Doing so ensures only people with sufficient permissions can access and change the secrets. Developers create configuration files without knowing the actual value of the secrets.

### Azure Key Vault

The next example is geared toward a real-world production scenario. It uses **Azure Key Vault** as the secret store. Azure Key Vault is a managed Azure service that enables secrets to be stored securely in the cloud.

For this example to work, the following prerequisites must be satisfied:

- You've secured administrative access to an Azure subscription.
- You've provisioned an Azure Key Vault named `eshopkv` that holds a secret named `redisPassword` that contains the password for connecting to the Redis server.
- You've created [service principal](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal) in Azure Active Directory.
- You've installed an X509 certificate for this service principal (containing both the public and private key) on the local filesystem.

>  > [!NOTE]
>  > A service principal is an identity that can be used by an application to authenticate an Azure service. The service principal uses a X509 certificate. The application uses this certificate as a credential to authenticate itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> A service principal is an identity that can be used by an application to authenticate an Azure service. The service principal uses a X509 certificate. The application uses this certificate as a credential to authenticate itself.
```

#### Using Key Vault when running in stand-alone mode

Consuming Azure Key Vault in Dapr stand-alone mode requires the following configuration file:

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: eshop-azurekv-secret-store
  namespace: eshop
spec:
  type: secretstores.azure.keyvault
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: vaultName
    value: eshopkv
  - name: spnTenantId
    value: "619926af-a7c3-4e95-93ed-4ecc4e3e652b"
  - name: spnClientId
    value: "6cf48032-6c38-43be-9d6f-2a43ce736b09"
  - name: spnCertificateFile
    value : "azurekv-spn-cert.pfx"
```

The secrets management component type is `secretstores.azure.keyvault`. The `metadata` element to configure access to Key Vault requires the following properties:

- The `vaultName` contains the name of the Azure Key Vault.
- The `spnTenantId` contains the *tenant id* of the service principal used to authenticate against the Key Vault.
- The `spnClientId` contains the *app id* of the service principal used to authenticate against the Key Vault.
- The `spnCertificateFile` contains the path to the certificate file for the service principal to authenticate against the Key Vault.

> > [!NOTE]
> > You can copy the service principal information from the Azure portal or Azure CLI .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!TIP]
> You can copy the service principal information from the Azure portal or Azure CLI .
```

Now the application can retrieve the Redis password from the Azure Key Vault.

#### Using Key Vault when running on Kubernetes

> Consuming Azure KeyVault with Dapr and Kubernetes also requires a service principal to authenticate against the Azure Key Vault.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consuming Azure Key Vault with Dapr and Kubernetes also requires a service principal to authenticate against the Azure Key Vault.
```

  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: vaultName
    value: [your_keyvault_name]
  - name: spnTenantId
    value: "619926af-a7c3-4e95-93ed-4ecc4e3e652b"
  - name: spnClientId
    value: "6cf48032-6c38-43be-9d6f-2a43ce736b09"
  - name: spnCertificate
    secretKeyRef:
      name: [k8s_spn_secret_name]
      key: [pfx_certificate_file_local_name]
auth:
    secretStore: kubernetes
```

At this point, an application running in Kubernetes can retrieve the Redis password from the Azure Key Vault.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> It's critical to keep the X509 certificate file for the service principal in a safe place. It's best to place it in a well-known folder outside the source-code repository. The configuration file can then reference the certificate file from this well-known folder. On a local development machine, you're responsible for copying the certificate to the folder. For automated deployments, the pipeline will copy the certificate to the machine where the application is deployed. It's a best practice to use a different service principal per environment. Doing so prevents the service principal from a DEVELOPMENT environment to access secrets in a PRODUCTION environment.

> When running in AKS, it's preferable to use an [Azure managed identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) for authenticating against Azure Key Vault. Managed identities are outside of the scope of this book, but explained in the [Azure KeyVault with managed identities](https://docs.dapr.io/operations/components/setup-secret-store/supported-secret-stores/azure-keyvault-managed-identity/) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running in  Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS), it's preferable to use an [Azure Managed Identity](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) for authenticating against Azure Key Vault. Managed identities are outside of the scope of this book, but explained in the [Azure Key Vault with managed identities](https://docs.dapr.io/operations/components/setup-secret-store/supported-secret-stores/azure-keyvault-managed-identity/) documentation.
```

The first time we use an acronym we need to fully qualify it.

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: eshop-secretstore
  namespace: default
spec:
  type: secretstores.local.file
  metadata:
  - name: secretsFile
    value: ./components/eshop-secretstore.json
```

The configuration file references the local store file `eshop-secretstore.json` located in the same folder:

```json
{
    "redisPassword": "**********",
    "sendgridAPIKey": "**********"
}
```

The `components` folder is specified in the command-line and mounted as a local folder inside the Dapr sidecar container. Here's a snippet from the `docker-compose.override.yml` file in the repository root that specifies the volume mount:

```yaml
  ordering-backgroundtasks-dapr:
    command: ["./daprd",
      "-app-id", "ordering-backgroundtasks",
      "-app-port", "80",
      "-dapr-grpc-port", "50004",
      "-components-path", "/components",
      "-config", "/configuration/eshop-config.yaml"
      ]
    volumes:
      - "./dapr/components/:/components"
      - "./dapr/configuration/:/configuration"
```

>  > [!Note]
>  > The Docker Compose override file contains environmental specific configuration values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> The Docker Compose override file contains environmental specific configuration values.
```

> Note the `/components` volume mount and `--components-path` command-line argument passed into the `daprd` startup command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `/components` volume mount and `--components-path` command-line argument are passed into the `daprd` startup command.
```

Once configured, other component configuration files can also reference the secrets. Here's an example of the Publish/Subscribe component configuration consuming secrets:

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: pubsub
  namespace: default
spec:
  type: pubsub.redis
  metadata:
  - name: redisHost
    value: redis:6379
  - name: redisPassword
    secretKeyRef:
      name: redisPassword
auth:
  secretStore: eshop-secretstore
```

> Note how the example references secrets from the local Redis store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding example, the local Redis store is used to reference secrets.
```
